Captioning sponsored by
MacNEIL/LEHRER PRODUCTIONS
>> Woodruff: THE HEATED
POLITICAL BATTLE OVER THE
KEYSTONE OIL PIPELINE GOT NEW
AMMUNITION TODAY, A STATE
DEPARTMENT REPORT RAISED NO
MAJOR ENVIRONMENTAL REASONS NOT
TO GO FORWARD.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, IT'S BEN BERNANKE'S
LAST DAY ON THE JOB.
WE ASSESS HIS ECONOMIC LEGACY
AFTER EIGHT YEARS AS HEAD OF THE
FEDERAL RESERVE.
>> I GIVE AN A MINUS.
>> A GIVE MAYBE A C MINUS,
IN THE SEMESTER SINCE 2010,
LET'S SAY, I WOULD SAY
INCOMPLETE
>> Woodruff: PLUS, AHEAD OF
SUNDAY'S BIG GAME, WE LOOK AT A
NEW TYPE OF SUPER BOWL AD
DIRECTED TO YOUR MOBILE PHONE.
AND IT'S FRIDAY, MARK SHIELDS
AND DAVID BROOKS ARE HERE TO
ANALYZE THE WEEK'S NEWS.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: SUPPORTERS OF THE
MUCH-DEBATED KEYSTONE OIL
PIPELINE PROJECT WON A KEY ROUND
TODAY.
A STATE DEPARTMENT REVIEW FOUND
COMPLETING THE PIPELINE, FROM
CANADA TO THE GULF, WOULD CAUSE
NO SERIOUS ENVIRONMENTAL
PROBLEMS.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THE REVIEW,
AND ITS IMPLICATIONS, RIGHT
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA IS
CUTTING OFF STATE-SUPPLIED WATER
TO 25 MILLION PEOPLE IN THE FACE
OF SEVERE DROUGHT.
THE UNPRECEDENTED DECISION TODAY
MEANS 29 WATER AGENCIES WILL
HAVE TO RELY ON LOCAL SOURCES OF
WATER.
THE HEAD OF THE STATE WATER
CONTROL BOARD SAYS IT'S
ESSENTIAL TO CONSERVE WHAT
LITTLE WATER IS LEFT IN STATE
RESERVOIRS.
THIS IS THE MOST SERIOUS
DROUTED WE'VE FACED IF
MODERN TIMES.
AND WE'LL HAVE TO FACE IT
HEAD ON AND MAKE MANY HARD
DECISIONS IN DAYS, WEEKS AND
MONTHS TO COME.
EVERYONE, FARMERS, FISH AND
PEOPLE IS CITIES AND TOWNS WILL
GET LESS WATER BECAUSE OF THE
DROUGHT.
>> Woodruff: THE CUT-OFF ALSO
AFFECTS NEARLY ONE MILLION ACRES
OF CROP LAND IN ONE OF THE
NATION'S RICHEST FARM BELTS.
A GLOBAL SELL-OFF SENT WALL
STREET SHARPLY LOWER.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST WELL OVER 149 POINTS TO
CLOSE BELOW 15,699.
THE NASDAQ FELL 19 POINTS TO
CLOSE BELOW 4,104.
FOR THE WEEK THE DOW LOST 1%.
THE NASDAQ FELL MORE THAN HALF A
PERCENT.
OVERALL, IT WAS THE MARKET'S
WORST MONTH SINCE LAST MAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA APPEALED TO THE
NATION'S C.E.O.'S TODAY TO HIRE
THE LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYED.
THE PRESIDENT URGED THEM TO
CREATE  OPPORTUNITIES FOR NEARLY
FOUR MILLION AMERICANS WHO'VE
BEEN OUT OF WORK FOR SIX MONTHS
OR MORE.
HE SPOKE TO LEADERS OF E-BAY,
BOEING, MCDONALDS AND A NUMBER
OF OTHERS, AT THE WHITE HOUSE.
>> FOLKS WHO HAVE BEEN
UNEMPLOYED THE LONGEST OFTEN
HAVE THE TOUGHEST TIME GETTING
BACK TO WORK.
IT'S A CRUEL CATCH-22.
THE LONGER YOU'RE UNEMPLOYED,
THE MORE UNEMPLOYABLE YOU MAY
SEEM.
NOW THIS IS AN ILLUSION, BUT
IT'S ONE THAT UNFORTUNATELY WE
KNOW STATISTICALLY IS HAPPENING
OUT THERE.
>> Wooduff: NEARLY 300 COMPANIES
MADE COMMITMENTS TO FOCUS MORE
ON THE LONG-TERM JOBLESS.
THE PRESIDENT ALSO SIGNED A MEMO
ENSURING THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
WON'T DISCRIMINATE AGAINST SUCH
APPLICANTS IN ITS OWN HIRING.
A FORMER NEW JERSEY PORT
AUTHORITY OFFICIAL NOW SAYS
THERE'S EVIDENCE THAT REPUBLICAN
GOVERNOR CHRIS CHRISTIE KNEW
ABOUT A MAJOR BRIDGE CLOSING
WHILE IT WAS HAPPENING.
CHRISTIE HAS SAID HE FOUND OUT
AFTER THE FACT
THE NEW ALLEGATION COMES FROM AN
ATTORNEY FOR DAVID WILLDSTEIN
WHO ORDERED THE BRIDGE CLOSING,
ALLEGEDLY  TO PUNISH A
DEMOCRATIC MAYOR.
CHRISTIE HAS DENIED ANY
KNOWLEDGE OF A POLITICAL MOTIVE.
THE FIRST ROUND OF THE SYRIAN
PEACE TALKS ENDED TODAY IN
GENEVA, WITH LITTLE TO SHOW.
THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT REJECTED
OPPOSITION  DEMANDS THAT
PRESIDENT BASHAR AL-ASSAD GIVE
UP POWER.
THE REGIME ALSO REFUSED TO
COMMIT TO A SECOND ROUND OF
NEGOTIATIONS.
WE'LL GET A FULL REPORT, AND
EXPLORE WHAT HAPPENS NEXT, LATER
IN THE PROGRAM.
OFFICIALS IN THAILAND ARE
WARNING THEY MAY CLOSE POLLING
STATIONS IF VIOLENCE ERUPTS
DURING SUNDAY'S GENERAL
ELECTION.
THE GOVERNMENT IS GOING AHEAD
WITH THE VOTE, DESPITE
PROTESTERS' OPPOSITION.
TODAY, THE ATMOSPHERE AT PROTEST
SITES IN BANGKOK WAS FESTIVE,
AND DEMONSTRATORS TRIED TO  DRUM
UP SUPPORT.
THEY'VE THREATENED TO DISRUPT
THE POLLING, TO SUPPORT CALLS
FOR A BOYCOTT.
>> ( translated ): I'M NOT GOING
TO VOTE ON SUNDAY, BECAUSE IF
YOU DO THAT MEANS YOU ACCEPT
THAT THIS ELECTION RIGHT.
WE HAVE BEEN DEFYING THIS
GOVERNMENT FOR LONG TIME.
WE NEED TO FINISH IT THIS TIME.
>> Wooduff: THE PROTESTERS ARE
DEMANDING THE OUSTER OF PRIME
MINISTER YINGLUCK SHINAWATRA.
THEY SAY SHE'S A PUPPET OF HER
BROTHER, WHO WAS OUSTED AS PRIME
MINISTER IN 2006.
MEMBERS OF THE INTERNATIONAL
OLYMPIC COMMITTEE ARRIVED IN
SOCHI, RUSSIA TODAY TO VIEW THE
SECURITY FOR THEMSELVES.
THOUSANDS OF POLICE AND TROOPS
ARE BEING DEPLOYED, ALONG WITH
HELICOPTERS AND RADAR SITES.
IT COMES IN THE FACE OF THREATS
BY ISLAMIST INSURGENTS.
MEANWHILE, PRESIDENT OBAMA SAYS
HE'D ADVISE FRIENDS IT'S OKAY TO
GO.
HE TOLD C.N.N.:
THE PROCESS OF BUILDING AN OBAMA
PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY HAS
FORMALLY BEGUN.
MAJOR SUPPORTERS ANNOUNCED TODAY
THEY'RE FORMING A FOUNDATION TO
RAISE MONEY, DEVELOP BUILDING
PLANS AND PICK A SITE.
THE LEADING POSSIBILITIES
INCLUDE HAWAII, WHERE THE
PRESIDENT WAS BORN AND THE
CHICAGO AREA, WHERE HE LIVED FOR
MANY YEARS AND WAS FIRST ELECTED
OFFTOICE.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR;
NEW AMMUNITION IN THE FIGHT OVER
THE KEYSTONE OIL PIPELINE; BEN
BERNANKE'S ECONOMIC LEGACY; SOME
PROGSS, REOTHER PITFALLS AT THE
SYRIAN PEACE TALKS; SUPER BOWL
ADS DIRECTED TO YOUR MOBILE
PHONE; PLUS, SHIELDS AND BROOKS
ON THE WEEK'S NEWS.
>> Woodruff: AS THE PROPOSED
KEYSTONE OIL PIPELINE EXTENSION
CLEARED A MAJOR HURDLE TODAY, IT
SET OFF ALARMS IN SOME QUARTERS
AND LIFTED HOPES IN THE WORLD OF
ENERGY AND BUSINESS.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS MORE ON
TODAY'S DEVELOPMENTS.
>> Brown: THE PIPELINE WOULD
STRETCH FROM THE ALBERTA, CANADA
OIL SANDS TO REFINERIES ON THE
GULF COAST, MOVING MORE THAN
800,000 BARRELS OF OIL A DAY.
THERE ARE CONCERNS ABOUT LEAKS
AND SPILLS, BUT SOME OF THE
BIGGEST ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ARE
FOCUSED ON THE EXTRACTION OF THE
OIL.
JULIET EILPERIN HAS BEEN
REPORTING ON THIS STORY FOR THE
"WASHINGTON POST" AND JOINS ME
NOW.
JULIET, FILL IN THE PICTURE
A BIT.
WHAT EXACTLY WAS THE STATE
DEPARTMENT LOOKING AT IN
THIS REPORT?
WHAT WAS ITS KEY FINDING?
>> THEY WERE LOOKING THE A
WHOLE RANGE OF IMPACTS
INCLUDING WHETHER REJECTING
THE PIPELINE WOULD MAKE A
DIFFERENT IN GLOBAL
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
LINKED TO CLIMATE CHANGE.
THEY ALSO LOOKED AT THINGS
LIKE WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF
THERE WAS A SPILL.
AND WHAT ABOUT ENDANGERED
SPECIES ALONG THE ROUTE,
THINGS LIKE THAT.
THEIR OVERALL CONCLUSION WAS
THAT NO ONE SINGLE
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT MAKES
A HUGE DIFFERENCE, A
SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCE IN
TERMS OF DEVELOPMENT IN THE
OIL REGION IN CANADA.
SO THE OVERALL CLIMATE
CHANGE IMPACT THEY'RE SAYING
IS NOT SIGNIFICANT FROM THIS
DECISION.
THAT'S THEIR BROAD
CONCLUSION.
>> SO THIS IS, OF COURSE,
HIGHLY CONTENTIOUS WITH
ENVIRONMENTALISTS FEELING
THAT THEY HAVE EVIDENCE OF
JUST THE OPPOSITE.
SO JUST REMIND US OF WHAT
THE MAIN CONCERNS HAVE BEEN.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
SO ENVIRONMENTALISTS HAVE
BEEN ARGUING FOR YEARS AT
THIS POINT THAT BY ALLOWING
THIS PIPELINE TO TRAVEL FROM
THE UNITED STATES TO GULF
COAST-- FROM CANADA TO GULF
COAST REFINERIES IN THE U.S.,
YOU'RE ACCELERATING CLIMATE
CHANGE BOTH BECAUSE YOU ARE
SPEEDING DEVELOPMENT IN THE
OIL SANDS REGION AND ALSO
BECAUSE YOU'RE INCREASING
THE UNITED STATES DEPENDENCE
ON FOSSIL FUELS.
AND ONE VERY INTERESTING
FACT IS THAT WHILE THIS
TECHNICAL DOCUMENT SUGGESTS
THAT THIS ONE PROJECT WOULD
NOT HAVE A SIGNIFICANT
GLOBAL CARBON IMPACT-- IMPACT,
THE STATE DEPARTMENT IS
MAKING IT VERY CLEAR THAT
THEY'RE STILL LOOKING AT HOW
THIS PIPELINE DECISION SITS
IN TO-- FITS INTO THE
BROADER NATIONAL AND
INTERNATIONAL CLIMATE
STRATEGY THAT THE PRESIDENT
IS PURSUINGMENT AND SO
THEY'RE MAKING IT CLEAR THAT
THIS IS NOT THE FINAL WORD
EVEN ON WHAT IS THE CLIMATE
IMPACT OF THIS PROJECT.
>> SO WHAT ARE THEY GOING TO
BE LOOKING AT GOING FORWARD
HERE.
THEY STILL MUST DECIDE
WHETHER IT'S IN THE
SO-CALLED NATIONAL INTEREST,
RIGHT?
HOW IS THAT BEING DEFINED.
>> THAT'S A VERY BROAD LINE,
ACTUALLY.
AND SO IT CAN INCLUDE
EVERYTHING INCLUDING OUR
ENERGY SECURITY.
IN OTHER WORDS, WHAT DOES IT
MEAN TO HAVE THE SUPPLY
COMING FROM CANADA AS
OPPOSED TO OTHER COUNTRIES.
THEY WILL LOOK AT THINGS
LIKE OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH
CANADA AND WHAT ARE THE
FOREIGN POLICY IMPLICATIONS
OF THIS.
AS WELL AS AGAIN, AS I
MENTIONED, THEY STILL ARE
GOING TO USE THIS KIND OF
AMORPHOUS TERM WHICH IS HOW
DOES THIS FIT INTO THE BROAD
NATIONAL, AN INTERNATIONAL
CLIMATE POLICY THAT
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS
PURSUINGMENT AND THEY WILL
BE REVIEWING THIS, GETTING
INPUT BOTH FROM THE PUBLIC
AS WELL AS FROM EIGHT
AGENCIES THAT WILL WEIGH IN
ON THIS QUESTION WITHIN WELL
S SO WHAT WAS THE RESPONSE
TODAY?
>> THERE WAS, YOU CAN
IMAGINE A LOT OF RESPONSE.
SO FOR EXAMPLE, CLEARLY THE
OIL INDUSTRY AN OTHER
CONSERVATIVES, FOR EXAMPLE,
ON CAPITOL HILL WELCOMED IT
ASICAL AS-- WELL AS THE
CONDITION DAN GOVERNMENT AN
TRANSCANADA, THE COMPANY
THAT HAS BEEN PURSUING THIS
PROJECT FOR YEARS.
ENVIRONMENTALISTS WITHOUT
EXCEPTION CRITICIZED THIS,
ALTHOUGH AGAIN THEY
EMPHASIZED THAT THEY DID NOT
THINK THIS WAS OVER.
ONE INTERESTING THING IS WE
HAVE JUST HAD A RAIL SPILL
OF OIL IN MISSISSIPPI.
AND SO PEOPLE ARE SEIZING ON
THAT SAYING THIS IS YET
ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF WHAT ARE
THE PROBLEMS WITH THE
TRANSPORTATION OF OIL INTO
THE UNITED STATES.
>> THE ULTIMATE DECISION, OF
COURSE, WILL BE BY THE
PRESIDENT.
AN THERE'S BEEN AS YOU SAID
SO MUCH PRESSURE FOR SEVERAL
YEARS ON THIS NOW.
DO YOU EXPECT THAT TO NOT
ONLY CONTINUE BUT RAMP UP
NOW THAT WE'RE INTO WHAT
LOOKS LIKE MAYBE A FINAL
STAGE HERE?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
I THINK YOU WILL SEE AN
INTENSIFICATION OF THE
PRESSURE, PARTICULARLY ON
THE SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN
KERRY.
SINCE THIS IS THE MOMENT
THAT HE GETS INVOLVED IN THE
PROCESS HE HAS ABSOLUTELY
STAYED OUT OF IT TO THIS
POINT AS HAS THE WHITE
HOUSE.
AND THIS IS THE FIRST MOMENT
THAT, FOR EXAMPLE, BOTH
ENVIRONMENTALISTS AS WELL AS
THEIR OPPONENTS CAN APPEAL
DIRECTLY TO A MAN WHO HAS
MADE CLIMATE CHANGE AND
ADDRESSING CARBON ONE OF THE
CENTRAL POINTS OF HIS
CAREER.
SO I THINK THAT THIS IS
GOING TO BECOME EVEN MORE
INTENSE AS WE MOVE FORWARD.
>> AND THE PRESIDENT HIMSELF
LAST SUMMER SAID HE WOULD
APPROVE THE PIPELINE ONLY IF
IT DIDN'T, QUOTE,
SIGNIFICANTLY EXACERBATE
CARBON SOLUTIONS.
SO TODAY'S DECISION CLEARLY
PLAYS AT LEAST PARTLY TO
THAT.
>> IT DOES.
ALTHOUGH AGAIN WHEN
REPORTERS WERE TRYING TO
PRESS THE SENIOR STATE
DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL, CARIE
ANN JONES WHETHER OR NOT
THIS REPORT ANSWERED THAT
QUESTION, SHE DECLINED TO
ANSWER IT.
SO THAT IS ABSOLUTELY THE
CENTRAL QUESTION.
AND WHILE AT THIS POINT THE
STATE DEPARTMENT WON'T SAY
WHAT ROLE THE PRESIDENT WILL
PLAY IN THIS, IT'S CLEAR
THAT ONCE A DECISION IS MADE,
THE WHITE HOUSE CAN'T STAY
ABSOLUTELY REMOVED AND THAT
THERE WILL BE AT LEAST SOME
INPUT.
>> FINALLY, IS THERE ANY
SENSE OF WHEN A DECISION
WILL COME?
>> THAT ACTUALLY IS STILL AN
OPEN QUESTION WHICH IS
INTERESTING PARTICULARLY IN
A MIDTERM ELECTION YEAR.
SO TECHNICALLY WE COULD BE
LOOKING AT A PROCESS THAT
WOULD LAST ABOUT 105 DAYS IF
YOU LOOK AT TECHNICALLY THE
CALENDAR.
BUT ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
THEY HAVE BEEN EMPHASIZING
IS THAT BOTH SECRETARY KERRY
WILL TAKE AS MUCH TIME AS HE
NEEDS TO CONSIDER IT.
SO IT COULD BE LONGER.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME SOME OF
THE OFFICIALS WARNED THAT IT
COULD BE SHORTER.
THAT THEY WILL URGE AGENCIES
TO GET ENGAGED QUICKLY AND
FRANKLY BECAUSE THIS IS
BEING DONE UNDER THE
PRESIDENT'S EXECUTIVE
AUTHORITY, THERE IS
CONSIDERABLE FLEXIBILITY.
SO THERE IS NO DELIBERATE
END POINT THAT WE CAN FACE.
>> JULIET EIL PERRIN THANKS
AGAIN.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: PART OF THE TURMOIL
IN THE MARKETS OF LATE,
ESPECIALLY EMERGING ONES
OVERSEAS, HAS TO DO WITH THE
FEDERAL RESERVE'S DECISION TO
START PULLING BACK ON ITS
STIMULUS.
THAT'S LED TO WORRIES ABOUT WHAT
MAY HAPPEN TO CAPITAL AND
INVESTMENT IN SOME COUNTRIES.
BUT THE FEDS DECISION COMES
AFTER YEARS OF UNPRECEDENTED
MOVES TO PROP UP THE ECONOMY.
THE MAN AT THE CENTER OF THAT
ACTION, CHAIRMAN BEN BERNANKE,
IS ENDING HIS TERM TODAY.
NEWSHOUR ECONOMICS CORESPONDENT
PAUL SOLOMAN LOOKS AT HIS LEGACY
AND THE QUESTIONS AWAITING HIS
SUCCESS.OR
IT'S PART OF HIS REPORTING ON
MAKING SENSE OF FINANCIAL NEWS.
>> Reporter: IN 2012, STILL A
HERO ON THE COVER OF THE
ATLANTIC.
BUT AS THAT MAGAZINES COVER ALSO
ASKED: WHY DOES EVERYONE HATE
HIM?
SO HERO?
OR ZERO?
RATHER THAN TRAWL THE DARKER
CORNERS OF THE INTERNET, WE
THOUGHT WE'D ASK TWO
PROFESSIONAL ECONOMISTS, ON THE
RIGHT AND LEFT, TO GRADE
BERNANKE'S PERFORMANCE.
>> I GIVE HIM FOR HIS WHOLE
TENURE AN A-.
>> Reporter: ECONOMICS PROFESSOR
ALAN BLINDER, A PAST VICE
CHAIRMAN OF THE FED, HIRED BEN
BERNANKE AT PRINCETON, SO OF
COURSE HE'S BIASED.
BUT IN HIS POST-CRASH
BESTSELLER, AFTER THE MUSIC
STOPPED, EVEN BLINDER TAKES
BERNANKE TO TASK FOR LETTING
LEHMAN BROTHERS FAIL, FREEZING
CREDIT WORLDWIDE.
THAT LOWERS THE GRADE FROM A
STRAIGHT A OR A+.
>> THE LEHMAN EPISODE JUST
STICKS IN MY CRAW, NOT TO SAVE
LEHMAN OR PUT THEM TO BED IN A
MORE GENTLE WAY, THIS IS A JOINT
MISTAKE OF BEN BERNANKE AND HANK
PAULSON, WHO WAS SECRETARY OF
THE TREASURY, BUT IT WAS VERY
CONSEQUENTIAL.
I MEAN AS YOU KNOW, ALL HELL
BROKE LOOSE THE VERY NEXT DAY.
>> Reporter: BUT AT A TOWN HALL
IN 2009, BERNANKE TOLD JIM
LEHRER THAT THE FED DIDN'T HAVE
THE LEGAL AUTHORITY TO INTERVENE
IN AN INVESTMENT BANK LIKE
LEHMAN.
>> IN THE CASE OF LEHMAN
BROTHERS, THERE WAS JUST A HUGE
$40, $50 BILLION HOLE THAT WE
HAD NO WAY TO FILL AND NO MONEY,
NO AUTHORIZATION, NO WAY TO DO
IT, SO WE HAD TO LET IT FAIL.
WE HAD NO CHOICE.
>> Reporter: TO BLINDER, THOUGH,
THE GOVERNMENT MADE UP ALL SORTS
OF TOOLS DURING THE CRASH.
>> GUESS WHAT?
THEY HAD THE LEGAL AUTHORITY TO
SAVE THE MONEY MARKET MUTUAL
FUNDS BY USING SOMETHING CALLED
THE EXCHANGE STABILIZATION FUND,
WHICH IS SUPPOSED TO BE TO
SUPPORT THE DOLLAR.
NOW HOW DID THAT WORK?
BUT SOMEHOW THE TREASURY'S
LAWYERS KOSHERED THAT WHEN JUST
A FEW DAYS BEFORE NOBODY WAS
KOSHERING A SAVING OF LEHMAN, SO
I COUNT THAT AS A MISTAKE.
>> Reporter: BUT THE REST OF HIS
TENURE YOU GIVE HIM AN A?
>> MY GRADING SYSTEM SAYS LETS
TAKE LEHMAN DAY PLUS THREE OR
SOMETHING, JUST A FEW DAYS AFTER
LEHMAN, GRADE HIM FROM THAT
POINT FORWARD, YEAH I GIVE A+.
>> Reporter: AND THAT'S PRETTY
MUCH THE MAINSTREAM OPINION OF
BERNANKE'S ROLE IN SAVING OUR
ECONOMIC BACON.
>> I SPENT MY ENTIRE ACADEMIC
CAREER STUDYING THE GREAT
DEPRESSION.
>> Reporter: THE CLOSEST THING
TO FLY-ON-THE-WALL FOOTAGE OF
THE CRASH: PAUL GIAMATTIS
PORTRAYAL OF BERNANKE IN THE HBO
FILM, TOO BIG TO FAIL.
>> IF WE DO NOT ACT BOLDLY AND
IMMEDIATELY WE WILL REPLAY THE
DEPRESSION OF THE 1930S.
ONLY THIS TIME IT WILL BE FAR,
FAR WORSE.
IF WE DON'T DO THIS NOW WE WON'T
HAVE AN ECONOMY ON MONDAY.
>> Reporter: AND SO, STARTING
THAT WEEKEND, THE FED, IN
CONJUNCTION WITH THE TREASURY
DEPARTMENT, TOOK HISTORICALLY
UNPRECEDENTED ACTION.
IT:
>> Reporter: WHEN PUSH CAME TO
COLLAPSE, EVEN CONSERVATIVE
ECONOMIST CHARLES CALOMIRIS
THINKS BERNANKE SAVED THE DAY.
BUT HOW DOES HE GRADE BERNANKES
ENTIRE CHAIRMANSHIP, WHICH
KICKED OFF EXACTLY EIGHT YEARS
AGO TOMORROW?
>> LETS TAKE IT AS THREE
SEMESTERS.
THE SEMESTER THAT BEGINS IN
SEPTEMBER OF 2008 AND ENDS
MIDDLE OF 2009, I WOULD SAY HE
GETS VERY HIGH GRADES, MAYBE
EVEN A STRAIGHT A, BUT THE
SEMESTER BEFORE THAT, I'D GIVE
HIM, UH, MAYBE A C-, AND THE
SEMESTER SINCE 2010 LETS SAY,
I'D SAY, INCOMPLETE.
>> Reporter: THE C- IS FOR
BERNANKE'S STINT PRE-CRISIS.
CALOMIRIS POINTS OUT THAT HE
JOINED THE FEDS BOARD OF
GOVERNORS BACK IN 2002, BECAME
CHAIRMAN IN 2006, AND YET NEVER
IN ALL THAT TIME PUSHED TO CLAMP
DOWN ON THE PROMISCUOUS LENDING
THAT HELPED CAUSE THE CRASH.
>> I THINK THAT THE FED WAS FAR
TOO LATE IN RECOGN
AFTER 2006 AND DOING SOMETHING
ABOUT THEM.
THE BANKING CRISIS WAS NOT A
SURPRISE, THE BANKING CRISIS WAS
THE CULMINATION OF THAT EROSION
IN THE CREDITWORTHINESS OF THE
BANKS.
>> Reporter: SO WE ASKED ALAN
BLINDER
WHAT ABOUT THE CHARGE THAT
BEFORE THE CRISIS WHEN THE
HOUSING BUBBLE WAS OBVIOUS TO A
LOT OF PEOPLE AND THE FED DID
ABSOLUTELY NOTHING ABOUT IT?
>> BERNANKE BECOMES CHAIRMAN OF
THE FED FEBRUARY 1, 2006 SO THIS
PROCESS HAD GONE PRETTY FAR BY
THEN.
IN ADDITION, TRY TO PUT YOURSELF
IN HIS SHOES AND I'VE THOUGHT
ABOUT THIS A LOT.
YOU'RE TAKING OVER FROM A
PERSON, ALAN GREENSPAN, WHOS
BEEN DEIFIED.
YOU BECOME CHAIRMAN OF THE FED.
ARE YOU GONNA WALK IN THE OFFICE
AND SAY, OKAY NOW EVERYTHING'S
DIFFERENT?
RIGHT, IM TAKING OVER FROM GOD
AND IM CHANGING EVERYTHING. I
THINK THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN
ASKING TOO MUCH OF ANYBODY I
DON'T THINK ANYBODY WOULD HAVE
DONE THAT.
>> Reporter: SO, MIXED GRADES
BEFORE THE CRISIS
HIGH GRADES DURING.
BUT WHAT ABOUT THE FED'S POLICY
EVER SINCE, SO-CALLED
QUANTITATIVE EASING IN WHICH THE
FED CONTINUED THE EXPANSION OF
THE NATIONS MONEY SUPPLY BEGUN
DURING THE CRASH, AN EXPANSION
THAT THE FED IS ONLY NOW,
GRADUALLY, TAPERING OFF?
MIGHTN'T ALL THE NEW MONEY, AN
LEAD TO INFLATION AND ANOTHER
CRASH LANDING, RISKS THAT THE
FEDS NEW CHAIR, JANET YELLEN,
WILL HAVE TO CONTEND WITH?
HAS EXPANSIONARY POLICY SINCE
THE CRISIS AS YOU KNOW MANY
CRITICS ALLEGED--
>> INCLUDING ME.
>> Reporter: --SET US UP FOR
ANOTHER FALL?
>> Reporter: AGAIN, CONSERVATIVE
ECONOMIST CHARLES CALOMIRIS.
>> THE FED UNDER BERNANKE UNDER
THE LAST TWO YEARS HAS CREATED
INFLATIONARY RISK THAT COULD BE
HARD FOR HIS SUCCESSORS TO
MANAGE.
WHAT HE CREATED WAS A RISK OF
INFLATION OVER THE NEXT FIVE
YEARS IN EXCHANGE FOR GETTING
VERY SMALL POTATOES IN TERMS OF
IMPROVEMENT IN THE ECONOMY OVER
THE PAST TWO YEARS.
>> Reporter: THAT RISK IS WHY
CALOMIRIS GIVES BERNANKE A POST-
CRASH GRADE OF INCOMPLETE.
BUT ALAN BLINDER CALLS INFLATION
FEARS BASELESS.
>> FOR YEARS THERE WAS GONNA BE
INFLATION NEXT YEAR, INFLATION
NEXT YEAR, WRONG, WRONG, WRONG,
WRONG, WRONG WE HAVEN'T HAD ANY
INFLATION.
LATELY SINCE THERE'S NO
INFLATION, OFTEN ITS THE SAME
PEOPLE HAVE STARTED THIS, ITS
CAUSING SPECULATIVE BUBBLES.
SO LETS SEE, WHERE?
HOUSE PRICES, I DON'T THINK SO,
THEY'VE RECOVERED ABOUT ONE-
THIRD OF WHAT THEY LOST AND IT
LOOKS LIKE THEY'RE KIND OF
LEVELING OFF, CANT TELL.
STOCK PRICES, WELL MAYBE BUT YOU
KNOW, WE HAVE EXTRAORDINARILY
HIGH PROFITS, WE HAVE
EXTRAORDINARILY LOW INTEREST
RATES, ON BASIC FUNDAMENTAL
STOCK PRICES SHOULD BE HIGH.
I DON'T STAY AWAKE WORRYING
ABOUT, UH, BUBBLES NOW.
>> Reporter: AT HER CONFIRMATION
HEARINGS, JANET YELLEN DIDN'T
SEEM OVERLY CONCERNED ABOUT
BUBBLES EITHER.
SHE TESTIFIED THAT SHE WANTS TO
SEE STRONGER JOB GROWTH, MAKING
SURE THAT THE FED DOESN'T
WITHDRAW ITS STIMULUS TOO
RAPIDLY.
AS FOR BERNANKE, HE SAYS HE'S
CONFIDENT THE FED CAN CONTINUE
SAFELY PULLING BACK.
>> I THINK WE HAVE PLENTY OF
TOOLS NOW, AT THIS POINT WE'VE
DEVELOPED ALL THE TOOLS WE NEED
TO MANAGE INTEREST RATES, TO
TIGHTEN MONETARY POLICY.
>> Reporter: AND SO, AS BEN
BERNANKE LEAVES OFFICE AFTER
WHAT EVERYONE AGREES IS AN
UNFORGETTABLE EIGHT YEARS ON THE
JOB, HIS FINAL GRADE PROBABLY
WON'T COME FOR YEARS, DURING THE
TENURE OF SUCCESSOR JANET
YELLEN.
OR MAYBE EVEN LATER THAN THAT.
>> Woodruff: THE LONG AWAITED
GENEVA TWO SYRIA PEACE TALKS
ENDED TODAY WITHOUT ANY
SEMBLANCE OF AN AGREEMENT.
AND AS JEFFREY BROWN REPORTS,
THERE'S UNCERTAINTY ON WHETHER
THERE WILL BE ANOTHER ROUND OF
DISCUSSIONS.
>> THIS IS A VERY MODEST
BEGINNING BUT IT IS A BEGINNING
ON WHICH WE CAN BUILD.
>> Brown: U.N. MEDIATOR LAKHDAR
BRAHIMI SUMMED UP THE NINE DAYS
OF CONTENTIOUS TALKS, SAYING, IN
EFFECT, PROGRESS NEEDS TO BE
MEASURED IN SMALL STEPS.
>> IT WAS A VERY DIFFICULT
START.
BUT THE SIDES HAVE BECOME USED
TO SITTING IN THE SAME ROOM.
THEY HAVE PRESENTED POSITIONS
AND LISTENED TO ONE ANOTHER.
THERE HAVE BEEN MOMENTS WHEN ONE
SIDE HAS EVEN ACKNOWLEDGED THE
CONCERNS AND THE DIFFICULTIES
AND THE POINT OF VIEW OF THE
OTHER SIDE.
>> Brown: BRAHIMI LAMENTED THAT
THE TWO SIDES FAILED TO AGREE ON
LIFTING THE SIEGE OF HOMS, WHERE
CIVILIANS ARE TRAPPED, WITH NO
ACCESS TO FOOD OR MEDICINE.
THERE WAS ALSO NO MOVEMENT ON
CREATING A TRANSITIONAL
GOVERNMENT.
THE SYRIAN FOREIGN MINISTER
REJECTED IT OUT OF HAND, AND
COMPLAINED THE OPPOSITION WON'T
FACE FACTS.
>> ( translated ): I REGRET TO
TELL YOU THAT WE HAVE NOT
REACHED TANGIBLE RESULTS DURING
FIRST OF ALL, THE LACK OF
MATURITY AND SERIOUSNESS ON THE
OTHER SIDE AND THE THREAT TO
IMPLODE THE CONFERENCE, AND
INSISTING ON AN ELEMENT, AS IF
WE HAVE COME HERE TO MEET FOR
ONE HOUR TO HAND OVER EVERYTHING
TO THEM AND THEN TO GO BACK.
>> Brown: THE MINISTER DID NOT
SAY IF HIS GOVERNMENT WILL COME
BACK FOR A SECOND ROUND OF
TALKS, ON FEBRUARY 10.
BUT THE WESTERN-BACKED "SYRIAN
NATIONAL COUNCIL" INSISTED THAT
BASHAR AL ASSAD MUST NEGOTIATE
THE END OF HIS REGIME.
>> I DON'T THINK THAT THERE WILL
BE A KIND OF MEETING OF MINDS
WITH THIS CRIMINAL REGIME.
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT.
I THINK THAT THIS REGIME WAS
FORCED TO COME TO GENEVA, HE IS
TRYING TO BUY TIME BECAUSE HE
KNOWS THE END IS NEAR.
>> Brown: ALL OF THIS, AS
OPPOSITION ACTIVISTS REPORTED
THAT ANOTHER 1,900 PEOPLE HAVE
DIED IN THE CIVIL WAR SINCE THE
PEACE TALKS BEGAN.
AMID THE FIGHTING CAME WORD THAT
THE U.S. RESUMED SHIPMENT OF
NON-LETHAL AID AND SOME LIGHT
ARMS TO MODERATE REBEL FACTIS.OK
TIMES" REPORTED GROUPS LINKED TO
AL-QAEDA HAVE SEIZED CONTROL OF
MOST OF SYRIA'S OIL AND GAS
RESOURCES.
THE ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ AND
SYRIA, OR ISIS, IS SAID TO BE
SELLING FUEL BACK TO THE ASSAD
GOVERNMENT.
MEANWHILE, THE U.S. COMPLAINED
ASSAD IS DRAGGING HIS HEELS IN
SHIPPING CHEMICAL AGENTS ABROAD
FOR DESTRUCTION.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
SPOKE TODAY IN BERLIN.
>> WE WANT THE SYRIAN REGIME TO
LIVE UP TO ITS OBLIGATIONS.
AND IT IS CRITICAL THAT VERY
RAPIDLY ALL OF THOSE CHEMICAL
WEAPONS BE MOVED FROM ONCE, FROM
THEIR 12 OR SO SITES TO THE ONE
SITE IN THE PORT AND BE PREPARED
FOR SHIPMENT OUT OF SYRIA ALL
TOGETHER.
>> Brown: KERRY MEETS THIS
WEEKEND WITH HIS RUSSIAN
COUNTERPART, TO DISCUSS THE
CHEMICAL WEAPONS ISSUE AND
PROSPECTS FOR THE NOW-RECESSED
PEACE TALKS.
>> Brown: SO WITH NO DEAL
ACHIEVED AND WITHOUT A FIRM
AGREEMENT TO MEET AGAIN, WHAT
ARE THE PROSPECTS FOR ENDING THE
COUNTRY'S CIVIL WAR WHICH HAS
CLAIMED THE LIVES OF AN
ESTIMATED 130,000 PEOPLE AND
DISPLACED MILLIONS?
WE TURN AGAIN TO JOSHUA LANDIS,
DIRECTOR OF THE CENTER FOR
MIDDLE EAST STUDIES AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA.
AND ANDREW TABLER, A SENIOR
FELLOW IN THE PROGRAM ON ARAB
POLITICS AT THE WASHINGTON
INSTITUTE FOR NEAR EAST POLICY.
JOSHUA LANDIS, LET ME START
WITH YOU.
WHAT DO YOU TAKE THERE FIRST
ROUND OF TALKS?
>> WELL, I THINK MANY PEOPLE
WERE EXPECTING-- WERE
EXPECTING THAT THE UNITED
STATES WOULD BE WILLING TO
TAKE HALF A LOAF, THAT IT
WOULD BE WILLING TO
COMPROMISE TO THE POINT OF
NOT ASKING FOR REGIME CHANGE
IN SYRIA IN ORDER TO GET,
PERHAP, SOME ACCESS TO STAFBING
PEOPLE, TO VICTIMS INSIDE
SYRIA, AND PERHAPS THE
BEGINNINGS OF A CEASE-FIRE
NOR TO ALLEVIATE THE
SUFFERING OF THE SYRIANS AND
THE BIG OUTFLOW OF REFUGEES
THAT RISKS TO BRING DOWN AND
TROUBLE NEIGHBORING STATES
BUT THE U.S. STUCK TO ITS
GUNS AND SAID THAT THERE HAS
TO BE REGIME CHANGE IN
SYRIA.
AS SOON AS THE ASSAD REGIME
SENSED THIS AND HEARD THE
OPENING SPEECH, IT BEGAN TO
TAKE AWAY OFFERS OF
CEASE-FIRE ACCESS TO
HUMANITARIAN AGENCIES AND
THE CONVERSATION BECAME ONE
OF ACCUSATION,
COUNTERACCUSATION, VERY
HEATED.
AND WE HAVEN'T SEEN ANY
PROGRESS.
AND WE'VE SEEN STALLING ON
CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
I THINK THAT THE REGIME WANT
TO GENEVA, I BELIEVE THE
SYRIAN REGIME, BELIEVING
THAT IT COULD-- THAT THE
UNITED STATES WAS BEGINNING
TO GET WORRIED ABOUT THE
JIHADIST PROBLEM AND WOULD
NOT-- WOULD STAKE A DEAL
SOMEHOW WITH THE ASSAD
REGIME AND THAT DID NOT
HAPPEN.
>> ALL RIGHT, ANDREW, WHAT
DO YOU TAKE FROM IT, THE
VERY FACT OF MEETING EVEN
SYMBOLICALLY, DID THAT HAVE
ANY IMPORTANCE.
>> YES, IT DOES.
IT GOES THE DIPLOMATIC BALL
ROLLING.
MANY PREDICTED THATTED
OPPOSITION WOULD COLLAPSE.
THAT DIDN'T HAPPEN, THEY
DIDN'T END UP GETTING
ACCESS.
THE REASON WHY I THINK THE
U.S. STUCK TO ITS GUNS
BECAUSE THIS CONFERENCE WAS
ABOUT TRANSITION.
IT WAS NEVER GOING TO BE
ABOUT A CONFERENCE ABOUT WHY
THE ASSAD REGIME SHOULD BE
DOING WHAT IT'S OBLIGATED TO
DO UNDER INTERNATIONAL
HUMANITARIAN LAW AND AGAIN
EFA CONVENTION.
ACCESS OF HUMANITARIAN GOODS
AND EVACUATION OF CIVILIANS
ARE RARED THERE.
IT'S BEEN A TRANSITION.
RUSSIA SON BOARD WITH A WITH
THAT.
SO ACTUALLY AT THE END OF
THE WEEK I THINK THE
OPPOSITION IS A TACTICAL
VICTOR REE AT LEAST IN THE
SHORT TERM.
>> BUT IN ADDITION TO
TRANSITION THERE ARE THE
HUMANITARIAN CRISIS GOING
ON.
WE MENTIONED HOMS, FOR
EXAMPLE, WHAT IS THE HOLDUP
THERE WITH GETTING
SOMETHING.
>> THE REGIME WILL NOT ALLOW
THE FLIES THROUGH THEIR
LINES INTO HOMS.
NOW IN HOMS, THE REBELS
THERE ARE ACTUALLY MORE
RELIABLE, THERE IS BETTER
COMMAND AND CONTROL.
THE LONG SIEGE THERE HAS
PUSHED THEM TOGETHER AND
THEY ARE BETTER CONNECTED
WITH THE SYRIAN NATIONAL
COALITION.
-- COALITION, SO IT WAS A
GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY AND
UNFORTUNATELY IT WAS MISSED.
WE'LL HAVE TO SEE IF THE
REGIME COMES BACK TO THE
NEGOTIATING TABLE ON
FEBRUARY 10th.
>> JOSHUA LANDISING THINS
LIKE THE HUMANITARIAN CRISIS,
IS THAT ON THE TABLE THERE?
DID THEY MAKE ANY HEADWAY?
IT DIDN'T MAKE ANY HEADWAY,
IT WAS ON THE ABLE BUT THE
REASONABLE I'M IS TRYING TO
MAKE A DEAL AND IT DIDN'T
SENSE THAT THERE WAS A DEAL
SO IT TOOK ITS OFFER OF AID
OFF THE TABLE AND WE'RE BACK
TO A WAR OF ATTRITION HERE,
I HAVE TALKED TO A NUMBER OF
PEOPLE IN WASHINGTON AND
PARIS ABOUT THIS.
AND THEY FEEL THAT ASSAD IS
AT HIS ACME, HIS STRONGEST
POINT HERE BECAUSE HE HAS
HAD A NUMBER OF SUCCESSES
MILITARILY.
THE REBELS ARE IN CHAOS BUT
THEY BELIEVE THAT WITH TIME
THE REB EMS WILL GET A NEW
COMMAND STRUCTURE THAT THEY
ARE GETTING TOGETHER.
THEY ARE GOING TO GET MORE
HELP AND THAT THE MINORITY
REGIME BEHIND A SOOD-- ASSAD,
THE AL WHITES, CHRISTIANS,
ARE ONLY ABOUT 20% OF THE
SYRIAN POPULATION.
THEY CAN BE-- AND THEIR
YOUNG MEN WILL BE KILLED OFF
EVENTUALLY AND THAT IN A
YEAR'S TIME OR PERHAPS EVEN
TWO, THE BALANCE OF POWER
WILL BE VERY DIFFERENT.
AND THIS REGIME WILL BEGIN
TO COLLAPSE.
AND THEN THE CONVERSATION
WILL CHANGE ANDREW TABLER,
WHAT ABOUT THE REPORTS THAT
SYRIA IS SO FAR BEHIND ON
THE TIMETABLE ON THE POISON
GAS TALKS.
>> IT HAS ONLY HANDED OVER
THE INITIAL SHIPMENT OF 500
TONS AM BUT NOT ONLY THAT,
SYRIA IS NOW REFUSING TO
PHYSICALLY DESTROY ITS
CHEMICAL WEAPONS FACILITIES
AND SAID THAT THEY WANT TO
MAKE IT INACCESSIBLE.
MEANING LIKE LOCK UP THE
FRONT DOORS, WELD IT, WHICH
IS EASILY REVERSED.
THE U.S. HAS COME OUT VERY
STRONGLY.
AND REMEMBER THAT THE GENEVA
COMMUNIQUE ON WHICH THE
TALKS HAVE BEEN GOING ON BE
THERE, THE ONLY PLACE THAT
IS ENSHRINED INSIDE THE
UNITED NATIONS IS IN THE
U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL 2118
THAT DEALS WITH THE CHEMICAL
WEAPONS ISSUE.
SO THEY'RE ACTUALLY LINKED
IN THERE.
SO I THINK NOW WE'RE GOING
TO BE GOING BACK TO THE
SECURITY COUNCIL, CONCERNING
CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
AND THERE'S HUMANITARIAN
ACCESS.
>> IS THIS TIED TO WHAT
JOSHUA LANDIS IS TALKING
ABOUT, THAT ASSAD IS FILING
HIMSELF VERY POWERFUL.
>> ASSAD FEELS VERY POWERFUL
PARTICULARLY IN THE WESTERN
PART OF THE COUNTRY.
BUT WAS'S INTERESTING IS
ASSAD DESPITE BEING SO
POWERFUL IS SAYING I'M NOT
STRONG ENOUGH TO ALLOW THESE
CONVOYS OF THESE CHEMICAL
WEAPONS, CHEMICAL AGENTS
THROUGH THE AREA OUT TO THE
COAST.
HE'S DEMANDING MORE AND MORE
EQUIPMENT.
AND-- WHICH IS INTERESTING.
IF HE IS SO STRONG IN THE
WEST, WHY DEMAND SO MUCH
EQUIPMENT.
ACTUALLY THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY BELIEVE THEY
PROVIDED SUFFICIENT
EQUIPMENT.
SO DOES THE OCPW AND THAT
LEAD TO THE STATEMENTS WE
HAVE SEEN FROM THE UNITED
STATES THE LAST TWO DAYS.
>> SO JOSHUA LANDIS, DO YOU
EXPECT THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT
TO GO BACK TO THE TABLE ON
FEBRUARY 10th?
ARE THERE SOME AREAS, EVEN
LIMITEDDED WHERE THERE MIGHT
BE SOME PROGRESS?
>> I DON'T THINK THEY WANT
TO TALK ABOUT REASON I'M
CHANGE, AND YOU KNOW, THE
MESSAGE FROM GENEVA WAS THE
MOST IMPORTANT THING IS THAT
ASSAD HAS TO STEP DOWN.
WE NEED REGIME CHANGES HERE
ASSAD IS NOT GOING TO STEP
DOWN.
THIS IS GOING TO BE DONE
OVER HIS DEAD BODY
THAT'S-- THIS IS WHAT THIS
CIVIL WAR IS ABOUT.
AND THAT IS WHERE WE ARE
ONCE AGAIN HE THOUGHT THERE
WAS AN OPENING FOR THAT THE
WEST WAS FALLING OUT OF LOVE
WITH THE SYRIAN OPPOSITION,
THEY'RE WORRY ABOUT THE
JIHADIST.
THEY'RE WILLING TO PAUK
ABOUT ASSAD REMAINING.
AS YOU REMEMBER THE EX-HEAD
SAID MAYBE ASSAD IS BETTER
THAN THE OPPOSITION AND RYAN
CROCKER, IMPORTANT
AMBASSADOR AND SPOKESPERSON
FOR THE STATE DEPARTMENT NOW
RETIRED HAD SAID THE SAME
THING, ROUGHLY.
THAT HE EXPECTS ASSAD TO
WIN.
SO ASSAD I THINK HAD BEGUN
TO FEEL THAT PERHAPS THERES
WITH A CHANGING MOOD IN THE
WEST.
HE DISCOVERED IN GENEVA
THERE IS NO CHANGE IN THE
WEST.
KERRY WAS VERY DRAMATIC,
THIS IS ABOUT REGIME CHANGE.
HE SAID THAT ASSAD IS THE
REASON FOR THE JIHADISTS
THERE, HE IS THE MAGNET.
AND UNTIL HE GOES, JIHADISTS
WILL NOT GO.
>> OKAY.
>> AND THAT WAS HIS
ASSERTION.
>> LET ME ASK YOU VERY
BRIEFLY, ANDREW.
ARE YOU AS PESSIMISTIC?
>> I'M PESSIMISTIC IN TERMS
OF FOR WE WERE
LEAVING-- RELIEVING THE
SUFFERING ON THE GROUND.
I THINK IS NO MISTAKE
PRESIDENT OBAMA TALKED ABOUT
SYRIA THREE TIME IN THE
STATE OF THE UNION SPEECH,
HE TALKED ABOUT SURPRISINGLY
SUPPORTING THE MODERATE
REBELS.
DEALING WITH EXTREMISM IN
SYRIA IS AS SIMPLE AS THE
ASSAD REGIME T HAS TO
INVOLVE WORKING WITH THE
OPPOSITION, THE
MODERATE PARTS WE CAN WORK
WITH.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH AGAIN.
>> PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: BEYOND THE FOOTBALL
GAME ITSELF, ADS HAVE LONG BEEN
A BIG PART OF THE EVENT THAT IS
SUPER BOWL SUNDAY.
NOW AS PEOPLE ARE INCREASINGLY
USING MOBILE TECHNOLOGY,
COMPANIES ARE TRYING TO STEP UP
THEIR GAME, LOOKING FOR NEW WAYS
TO PITCH THEIR PRODUCT TO YOU
DIRECTLY.
AND THERE ARE QUESTIONS ABOUT
WHETHER THEY MAY BE CROSSING A
LINE.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY
FROM OUR NEW YORK STUDIO.
>> Sreenivasan: FANS WHO'VE
DESCENDED ON NEW YORK FOR
SUNDAY'S SUPER-SIZED MATCH-UP
ARE EXCITED, AS ALWAYS.
AND SO ARE COMPANIES LOOKING TO
HIGHLIGHT NEW TRENDS IN TECH.
THE WEBSITE whosgonnawin.com FOR
INSTANCE, HAS BEEN TABULATING
FANS DAILY TWITTER VOTES.
EACH NIGHT, THE WINNING TEAM
GETS A DISPLAY OF ITS COLORS
ATOP THE EMPIRE STATE BUILDING.
LAST NIGHT THE HONOR WENT TO
SEATTLE.
A NUMBER OF COMPAES ANILSO HAVE
ROLLED OUT ONLINE PREVIEWS OF
SUPER BOWL ADS, HOPING TO
MAXIMIZE THE RETURN ON 30-SECOND
COMMERCIALS THAT COST $4 MILLION
APIECE.
LAST YEAR'S BROADCAST PULLED IN
MORE THAN 108 MILLION VIEWERS,
BUT THE N.F.L. HOPES TO EXPAND
PAST THE TELEVISION MARKET.
THIS YEAR, ONLINE VIEWERS CAN
SEE A LIVE STREAM OF THE GAME ON
foxsportsgo.com OR THE COMPANY'S
I-PAD APP.
SOME VERIZON I-PHONE USERS WILL
WATCH USING THE N.F.L. MOBILE
APP.
IT ALSO GIVES POP-UP ALERTS ON
EVENTS AND RETAIL PROMOTIONS,
AROUND MANHATTAN AND AREAS NEAR
METLIFE STADIUM IN NEW JERSEY.
TINY BEACONS TRANSMIT THE
ALERTS, BASED ON THE LOCATION OF
YOUR CELL PHONE.
>> Sreenivasan: NICK WINGFIELD
OF THE NEW YORK TIMES HAS BEEN
WRITING ABOUT THIS LATEST MOVE
BY ADVERTISERS IN THE MOBILE
AGE.
HE JOINS ME FROM SEATTLE.
SO NICK,I TRIED TO EXPLAIN
IT BUT HOW DO THOSE BEACONS
WORK, HOW DO THEY KNOW WHERE
YOU ARE AND WHAT THE
PRODUCTS AROUND YOU ARE?
>> THE BEACONS ARE A FORM OF
TRANSMITTER THAT THE NFL IS
INSTALLING IN VARIOUS AREAS
AROUND MIDTOWN, WHAT THEY DO
IS WIRILESSLY KPAUN KATE
USING A TECHNOLOGY CALLED
BLUETOOTH WITH YOUR SMART
PHONE.
SO IF YOU'VE DOWNLOADED AN
APP FOR THE NFL AND YOU WALK
WITHIN LET'S SAY 10, 20, 30
FEET OF ONE OF THESE
TRANSMITTERS, IT WILL WAKE
UP YOUR PHONE AND SEN YOU AN
ALERT, IF YOU HAVE CONSENTED,
THAT IS, TO RECEIVE THESE
ALERTS.
AND THE ALERTS MIGHT TELL
YOU TO WALK DOWN THE STREET
SO GO SEE THE VINCE LOMBARDI
TROPHY, TO GO TO THE FOURTH
FLOOR OF MACY'S TO GET NFL
MERCHANDISE OR TO GO SEE THE
TOBOGGAN RUN IN MIDTOWN
MANHATTAN.
THERE IS A VART OF
INFORMATION IT CAN GIVE TO
YOU.
BUT BASICALLY IT WORKED ON A
TECHNOLOGY THAT ALMOST ALL
OF US HAVE IN MODERN SMART
PHONES TODAY.
AND IF YOU HAVE THE RIGHT
APP, THEN THAT MEANS THAT
THE NFL CAN COMMUNICATE WITH
YOU.
>> AND YOU'RE SAYING THAT
IT'S NOT JUST THE SUPER BOWL,
THAT THERE ARE OTHER
STADIUMS AN OTHER CITIES AN
OTHER LEAGUES ROLLING THIS
TECHNOLOGY OUT?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THINK OF THE NFL AND THE
SUPER BOWL THIS WEEK AS THE
FIRST REAL BIG TEST OF THIS
KNOWLEDGE.
IT'S -- IT'S BEINGED ROLLED
OUT IN BASEBALL BALL PARK N
ABOUT TWO DOZEN STADIUMS
INCLUDING FENWAY PARK, BY
OPENING DAY THIS YEAR.
AMERICAN EAGLE STORES ARE
PUTTING IT IN.
MAZIES IS PUTTING IT IN.
SO THERE ARE A VARIETY OF
DIFFERENT VENUES, STADIUMS
AND OTHER, YOU KNOW, OTHER
STORES THAT ARE INSTALLING
THIS TECHNOLOGY.
AND FROM WHAT I HAVE HEARD
FROM PEOPLE WHO ARE FLUENT
IN THIS AREA, YOU KNOW, IT'S
GOING TO BE HARD TO FIND
PUBLIC VENUES THAT DON'T
HAVE SOME FORM OF THIS
TECHNOLOGY BECAUSE BASICALLY
VENUES WANT TO BE ABLE TO
COMMUNICATE WITH THEIR
CUSTOMERS AND SPECTATORS.
AND THAT IS THOUGHT TO BE
ONE WAY TO DO THAT.
>> SO BEYOND SPORTS VENUES
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT RETAILERS
TRYING TO COMMUNICATE.
SO THIS IS ALMOST LIKE AN
ELECTRONIC BARKER STANDING
AT THE DOOR SAYING HEY, COME
IN HERE.
THERE IS A SALE, 10% OFF IF
YOU WALK IN AND BUY
SOMETHING RIGHT NOW.
>> THINK ABOUT YOUR
EXPERIENCE WHEN YOU GO TO
AMAZON AND YOU LOG IN AND
MAYBE IT WELCOMES YOU BY
NAME AND THEN IT SORTS OF
CUSTOMIZES ITSELF.
THIS IS KIND OF THE SAME
IDEA BUT IN THE BRICKS AND
MORTAR WORLD.
YOU MIGHT WALK INTO AN
AMERICAN EAGLE STORE, IT
WOULD SAY WELCOME, HARI, IT
MIGHT RECOGNIZE THAT YOU ARE
A LOYAL CUSTOMER AND GIVE
YOU CERTAIN CUSTOMIZED
OFFERS.
BUT IT WOULD DO THIS VERY
PRECISELY WHEN YOU GO OVER
THE JEANS SECTION, IT WOULD
KNOW WHEN YOU GOT CLOSE TO
THE JEANS.
IT WOULDN'T JUST BE ONE
ANTENNA FOR THE ENTIRE STORE,
IT IS A VERY LOCAL
TECHNOLOGY THAT CAN BE TUNED
VERY PRECISELY TO GIVE YOU A
BETTER EXPERIENCE WHEN YOU
ARE WANDERING AROUND THE
STORE.
>> SOIF'S GOT TO ASK IN THE
ERA OF N/A REVELATIONS OR
EVEN CREDIT CARD BREACHES
AND TARGET AND NIEMAN MARCUS,
WITHOUT OWNS ALL THAT
INFORMATION ABOUT WHERE I AM
IN THE STORE AND WHAT MY
TASTES AN PREFERENCES ARE?
>> WELL, IN THIS CASE, THE
TRANSMITTERS THEMSELVES, THE
PEOPLE, TECHNOLOGISTS SAY
DON'T ACTUALLY RECORD YOUR
LOCATE, WHAT RECORDS YOUR
LOCATION ARE THE APPS THAT
YOU ARE USING WHEN YOU GO
INTO THE STORE.
SO IN THE CASE OF THE NF
WILL BE, THAT WOULD BE THE
NFL, MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
IF YOU GO INTO A BALLPARK.
AND WHAT THEY DO WITH IT IS
REALLY UP TO THEIR TERMS OF
SERVICE.
A LOT OF THESE PLACES SAY
THEY WANT TO SELL IT TO
ANOTHER COMPANY.
THEY'RE GOING TO RESPECT
YOUR PRIVACY BUT REALLY YOU
KNOW, THEY HAVE A LOT OF
LATITUDE IN TERMS OF WHAT
THEY CAN USE IT FOR.
OF COURSE ONE HOPES THAT
THEY HAVE GOOD SECURITY
BECAUSE FRANKLY SOMEONE CAN
BREAK IN AND STEAL THIS DATA
THE WAY THEY HAVE ED:ITY
CARD INFORMATION FOR TARGET.
>> SO LET'S SAY EVEN SETTING
HACKERS ASIDE, DOESN'T THAT
DATA OVER TIME BECOME MORE
VALUABLE, SAY IF SOMEONE
STOMERS THAT BUYSL AND SAYSOV
JERSEYS IS ALSO THE TYPE OF
CUSTOMERS THAT BUYS BEER AN
COULD YOU LET ME TAKE A LOOK
AT YOUR CUSTOMER LIST?
>> YEAH, IT COULD BE.
AND WE'LL REALLY SEE HOW
THIS INFORMATION, HOW THIS
TYPE OF TECHNOLOGY PANS OUT.
IT REALLY HAS NOT BEEN
TESTED BROADLY YET.
AND SO IT MAY TURN OUT THAT
PEOPLE REALLY HATE IT.
WE HAVEN'T TALKED REALLY, WE
TALKED ABOUT PRIVACY.
THERE ARE ALSO SOME
POTENTIAL ANNOYANCE ISSUES
HERE.
WALK INTO A BALLPARK IF THEY
START SENDING YOU TOO MANY
MESSAGES ALERTING YOU EVERY
10 FEET WHEN THERE IS A HOT
DOG STAND NEARBY OR DOW WANT
TO BUY A BEER AND ALL OF
THIS.
THAT COULD GET VERY IRTAINGT,
CONSUMERS WOULD REJECT THE
TECHNOLOGY AND OPT OUT OF
THE APPLICATIONS THAT DO
THIS TRACKING.
SO IT REMAINS TO BE SEEN HOW
VALUABLE THIS DATA IS GOING
TO BE.
BUT CERTAINLY THE PROMISE IS
THERE.
AND THE POTENTIAL FOR ABUSE.
>> ALL RIGHT, NICK FROM "THE
NEW YORK TIMES", THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> YOU BET
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS, THAT'S
SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND NEW YORK TIMES
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
WELCOME, GENTLEMEN.
SO I WANT TO ASK YOU FOR
YOUR SUPER BOWL PREDICTIONS
IN A MINUTE, SO YOU HAVE A
FEW MINUTES TO THINK ABOUT
THAT.
BUT THE COUPLE OF NEW
STORIES BUBBLING TODAY,
DAVID, ONE OF THEM IS THIS
KEYSTONE OIL PIPELINE
STATEMENT BY THE STATE
DEPARTMENT THAT THEY DON'T
THINK THAT THERE IS A
SERIOUS ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE
THAT WOULD BE CREATED IF
THEY FINISHED THE PIPELINE.
WHAT'S THE EFFECT, THIS HAS
BEEN A HOT POTATO ISSUE.
WHAT EFFECT DID IN HAVE?
>> WELL, THE PRESIDENT HAS
BEEN WAFFLING, SORT OF
SIALINGNG HE WOULD OKAY THE
THING.
HIS VIEW IS THAT THE THING
IS SORT OF OVERBLOWN, A
SYMBOLIC ISSUE OF WHETHER
YOU ARE FOR FRACKING OR
AGAINST FRACKING, YOUR
ATTITUDES TOWARDS THE
NATURAL GAS INDUSTRY.
I THINK THE ASSUMPTION HAS
ALWAYS BEEN AT THE BE OF THE
DAY AFTER MAKING SORT OF A
POLITICAL GESTURE TOWARD THE
ENVIRONMENTAL MOVEMENT HE
WOULD END UP ON THE ORE
SIDE.
AND IF YOU LISTEN TO THE
STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS,
THE ENERGY REVOLUTION IN
THIS COUNTRY IS POSSIBLY THE
BEST THINGNG ECONOMICALLY THAT
HAPPENED TO THE COUNTRY IN A
LONG TIME.
AND SO HE WAS BRAGGING ABOUT
HOW MUCH ENERGY HE WAS
PRODUCING.
HOW IT CHANGES THE DYNAMIC
IN THE MIDDLE EAST.
IT'S BEEN A WONDERFUL BOON
TO THE AMERICAN ECONOMY.
SO I THINK AT THE ENOF THE
DAY HE IS NOT GOING TO LIKE
IT IN THE WAY THAT EVEN ON A
SYMBOLIC ISSUE ARE O SEMI
SYMBOLIC ISSUE.
>> DO YOU THINK THIS SMOOTHS
AWAY FOR THE PRESIDENT TO
SAY IT'S OKAY TO GO AHEAD
WITH THE EXPANSION.
>> IT MAKES IT TOUGHER FOR
HIM TO SAY NO, I THINK.
BUT I THINK WITH THE RISK TO
DEMOCRATS IS THAT IT COULD
ALIENATE ONE OF THE MOST
ACTIVIST BLOCS IN THE PART
GOING INTO THE 2014
ELECTIONS.
AND THAT IF
ENVIRONMENTALISTS DECIDE TO
SULK AND SIT ON THEIR HANDS
AND SAY THIS PRESIDENT HAS
LET US DOWN, AND IT COULD BE
A REAL DEFICIT FOR
DEMOCRATS.
>> AND SO WE WILL WATCH AND
SEE.
WE KNOW THERE IS ANOTHER
JOHN KERRY, SECRETARY OF
STATE HAS TO MAKE A DECISION
AND THE PRESIDENT, WELL, THE
OTHER STORY THAT CAME OUT,
THIS IS LATE TODAY, HAS TO
DO WITH GOVERNOR CHRISTIE'S
NEW JERSEY GOVERNOR AND
WHETHER HE KNEW OR DIDN'T
KNOW, DAVID, ABOUT THE
CLOSING DOWN OF TRAFFIC
LANES ON THE BRIDGE LEADING
INTO NEW YORK CITY.
AND WHAT IT-- IT IS A LITTLE
CONFUSING BUT THERE IS A
"NEW YORK TIMES" STORY
SAYING, QUOTING THE FORMER
WHO SAID THAT, WHO IS SAYING
GOVERNOR CHRISTIE DID KNOW
THAT THIS WAS GOING ON.
AND NOW CHRISTIE'S OFFICE
HAS COME OUT SUBSEQUENT TO
THAT AND SAID WELL, THAT'S
OKAY.
THAT CONFIRMS WHAT HE SAYS.
SO HOW, WHAT DO YOU TAKE
AWAY FROM ALL THIS.
>> PEOPLE WITH DISTURBINGLY
LONG MEMORIES WOULD REMEMBER
THAT THIS WOULD NOT HURT HIM
TOO MUCH.
SO THAT VIEW IS LACKING A
LITTLE LESS TEN ABLE --
TENABLE AS TIME GOES BY.
SO IT HAS BEGUN TO HURT HIM
JUST BECAUSE THERE'S BEEN A
SERIES OF OTHER STORIES
VOLUMING-- FOLLOWING.
BUT I DID SAY THAT IF IT
TURNS OUT THAT THE CENTRAL
THEME OF TTHA LONG NEWS
CONFERENCE WAS THAT HE DID
KNOW CONTEMPORANEOUSLY THAN
HE'S IN BIG TROUBLE.
AND SO WE DONE KNOW THE
STATE OF THE EVIDENCE, THE
QUALITY OF THE EVIDENCE BUT
IF HE KNEW CONTEMPORANEOUSLY
THAN HE DOESN'T ONLY LOOK
LIKE A BULLY, HE LOOKS LIKE
SOMEBODY GOT UP THERE AND
SAID SOMETHING THAT WAS
EITHER WITHHOLDING THE TRUTH
OR SIMPLY UNTRUTHMENT I
DON'T WANT TO SAY WE ARE
THERE YET BUT IF IT TURNS
OUT TO BE THERE I DO THINK
IT REALLY BECOMES QUITE
DAMAGING.
AND EVEN POSSIBLE TO IMAGINE
HE WON'T BE ABLE TO RUN FOR
PRESIDENT.
>> SO IT DOESN'T MATTER
WHETHER IT'S PROVEN, MARK,
THAT THERE WAS A POLITICAL
MOTIVATION.
THEY WANTED TO FURNISH THIS
MAYOR, WHAT REALLY MATTERS
IS DONE --
>> YEAH, HIS WORD.
I MEAN HE WAS PRETTY
UNEQUIVOCAL AND PRETTY
CLEAR.
I THINK MOST DEMOCRATS WOULD
CONCEDE THAT HE WAS THE MOST
FORMIDABLE CANDIDATE IN 2016,
THAT THEY WERE MOST AFRAID
OF.
THEY ARE LESS AFRAID TODAY.
THIS IS THE MAN, DAVID
WILDSTEIN WHO IS HIS HIGH
SCHOOL CLASSMATE.
>> PORT AUTHORITY WITHIN
PORT AUTHORITY OFFICIAL TO
WHOM THE MESSAGE WAS SENT
FROM CHRISIEST'S DEPUTY
CHIEF OF STAFF, TIME FOR
SOME TRAFFIC PROBLEMS IN
FORT LEE.
SO HE WAS THE GUY TO EXECUTE
THE PLAN.
AND THERES WITH A PLAN.
THIS WASN'T JUST AN
OBVIOUSLY A HANGING PHRASE.
THERE HAD BEEN A PLAN, THIS
WAS AN ACTIVATION ORDER.
WHAT IS INTERESTING, JUDEY
IS THIS, EVERYTHING GOES
BACK TO HIGH SCHOOL.
CHRIS CHRISTIE IN HIGH
SCHOOL SAID HE DIDN'T REALLY
KNOW.
HE DIDN'T REALLY NODE DAVID
WILDSTEIN WHO HE PRAISED AS
A TIRELESS ADVOCATE FOR THE
PEOPLE OF NEW JERSEY WHEN HE
LEFT.
BUT HE DIDN'T REALLY KNOW
HIM BECAUSE HE SHALL CHRIS
YAS CHRIS COMMITTEE HAD BEEN
CLASS PRESIDENT, HE HAD BEEN
AN ATHLETE, AND DAVID
WILDSTEIN WASN'T THE COOL
GUIDE WITHOUT STAT AT THE
CALL GUY AES STABLE IN THE
CAFETERIA.
THIS IS SORT OF THE REVENGE
OF THE GEEKS.
>> BUT DOES, I MEAN, SO BOTH
OF YOU ARE SAYING, NO MATTER
WHAT COMPANY KOS OUT OF THIS,
HIS BRAND, HIS PERSONA IS
HURT.
>> I THINK THE TIMES
REPORTING HAS BEEN PRETTY
TOUGH.
I MEAN THEY DID A LONG
DOCUMENTED PIECE THIS WEEK
ON HIS OFFICE.
AND HOW INTIMATELY HE WAS
INVOLVED IN EVERYTHING THAT
WENT ON.
THE POLITICS OF IT.
THE SUBSTANCE OF IT.
THE CAMPAIGN OF IT.
YOU KNOW, HE WAS A HANDS-ON
GO GUY, THIS IS THE ARGUMENT
FOR CHRIS CHRISTIE, THE GUY
WITH WONDERFUL POLITICAL
INSTINCTSA,  GUY IN CHARGE.
AND NOW THE DEFENSE SAYS HE
WASN'T CURIOUS, HE DIDN'T
KNOW.
AND I JUST, OR HE WAS PAVES.
I JUST THINK IT BECOMES MORE
OF A PROBLEM FOR THEM
POLITICALLY WHETHER LEGALLY
OR SOMETHING ELSE.
>> I THINK EVEN BRAGGING
THAT YOU WERE A BIG MAN ON
CAMPUS YOU HAVE ALREADY ALL
YENT ATED 99 PERCENT.
I'M SURE PEOPLE IN MARK'S
SOCIAL CIRCUMSTANCE REL VERY
UP ET.
BUT JUST ONE OTHER POINT,
YOU ARE OM FRNEW JERSEY,
YOUR GOVERNOR, IF THE GUY
HAS EVIDENCE TO BURN YOU,-- TO
HIM, HE DID NOT DO THAT.
>> YEAH, DON'T-- COULDN'T
UNDERSTAND THAT.
>> THIS IS THE WEEK OF THE
STATE OF THE UNION.
JUST THREE DAYS AGO, 72
HOURS, DAVID, WHAT ARE WE
LEFT WITH AT THIS POINT.
DID THE PRESIDENT HELP
HIMSELF.
DID HE ADVANCE HIS CAUSE BY
WHAT HE HAD TO SAY?
>> I JUST, I GO BACK TO THE
WET MOODEL.
THAT HAS ONLY BEEN
REINFORCED BY WHAT I HAVE
HEARD FROM PEOPLE AROUND-- THAT
THERE IS A SENSE OF
UNINSPIRED, NOT THRILLED,
RATINGS NOT GREAT.
NOT BEING IDEAS.
AND I DO THINK IT WAS A
MISREADING AND REFLECTION OF
MISREADING OF THE COUNTRY.
WITH A COUNTRY IN FEAR OF
REALLY A DECLINE, I DO THINK
YOU HAVE TO HAVE SOMETHING
BIG.
THAT MEANS YOU PROBABLY
CAN'T HAVE SOMETHING
PASSIONABLE.
BUT I DO THINK HE HAD THE
TANT TO REALLY CHANGE THE
DEBATE IN SOME LARGE WAY TO
REALLY MAYBE NOT PASS
LEGISLATION BUT PAVE THE WAY
FOR A FUTURE PRESIDENT TO
PASS LEGISLATION BY
INTROCAUSING IDEAS, CREATING
NETWORKS BY MOBILE
IDENTIFIESING A MOVEMENT FOR
EQUALITY, FOR OPPORTUNITY,
FOR SOCIAL MOBILITY AND CAN
COULD HAVE LAID THE
PREDICATE FOR SOMETHING BIG
THAT WOULD HAVE FELT BIG AND
COMMENSURATE WITH THE MOMENT
AND I GUESS I DON'T THINK HE
DID IT.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU READ
IT.
>> I CAN'T ARGUE THAT IT
WASN'T BIG, I DON'T THINK
CHILDREN IN THE FUTURE
GENERATIONS WILL BE
MEMORIZING LARGE CHUNKS OF
THIS SPEECH.
AND COMMITTING THEM TO
MEMORY.
BUT I DO THINK THAT IT WAS
THE WORD THAT HE USED THAT I
THINK GWEN USED IT IN THE
POST-ELECTION, POST SPEECH
ANALYSIS, THAT WAS WORKMAN
LIKE, IT WORKED POLITICALLY
T WAS NOT UPLIFTING T WAS
NOT-- BUT I DO THINK THAT IT
PUT THE REPUBLICANS, QUITE
FRANKLY ON THE DEFENSIVE BY
THE ISSUES THE PRESIDENT DID
RAISE, THE REPUBLICANS HAVE
BEEN SCRAMBLING SINCE.
TO PROVE THAT THEY'RE NOT
JUST THE OPPOSITION, THE
BLIND OPPOSITION THAT THEY
DO HAVE ALTERNATIVES WHETHER,
AND THEY ARE EVEN NOW
REVISITING, I THINK FORCED
TO REVISIT HEALTH CARE.
THEY JUST CAN'T BE BLINDLY
TO REPEAL IT AND THEY'RE
WRESTLING WITH IMMIGRATION
WHICH IS ULYTR THE SAN
ANDREAS FAULT OF THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY.
THIS IS POTENTIALLY
COMBUSTABLE FOR THEM.
>> HE ONLY TOUCHED BRIEF
LEIGH ON IMMIGRATION.
BUT SINCE THEN HE'S
INDICATED DAVID JUST IN THE
LAST DAY OR SO THAT HE'S
OPEN TO FRANKLY THE LANGUAGE
OF THE REPUBLICANS WERE
SUPPORTING, NOW-- THE HOUSE
REPUBLICANS HAVE BEEN
OFFERED A RETREAT THE LAST
COUPLE OF DAYS.
WHAT IS COMING OUT OF THAT
AND WHAT DO WE THINK ABOUT
IT.
>> THE PRESIDENT IS
DEFENDANT ABOUT THAT.
HE DIDN'T WANT TO GET IN
FRONT OF THE REPUBLICANS BE
HE WANTED THEM TO TAKED
INITIATIVE AND THEN EMBRACE.
BOEHNER ISSUED PRINCIPLESES
I THOUGHT WHEN HE ISSUE THE
PRINCIPLES THEY FOUND A WAY
TO HEAL THE FAULT AMOUNT OF
MY UNDERSTANDING IS THEY
HAVEN'T.
AND THEY ARE CERTAINLY NOT
GOING TO WANT TO DO IT,
RAISE ANYTHING BEFORE
PRIMARIES BECAUSE THEY DON'T
WANT REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES
TO BE FACED WITH PRIMARY
CHALLENGES ON THIS ISSUE.
SO THAT PUSHES IT OFF FOR A
BIT OF AWHILE.
AND THEN I THINK THE
OPPOSITION IS STILL STRONG.
SO I'M LESS HOPEFUL THAT
THEY'RE GOING TO BE ABLE TO
GET SOMETHING OUT OF THE
HOUSE LET ALONE SOMETHING
THAT IS MANAGEABLE WITH THE
SENATE.
>> THE PROBLEM THERE IS VERY
SIMPLE ONE.
REPUBLICANS HAVE THE HOUSE.
IT ALL LIKELIHOOD THEY WILL
HOLD ON TO THE HOUSE.
THE REPUBLICANS CAN AN MAYBE
EVEN EXPAND THAT IN 2014.
THE REPUBLICANS CANNOT WIN
THE PRESIDENCY WITH THEIR
PRESENT POSITION ON
IMMIGRATION.
AND THE POSITION OF MITT
ROMNEY IN 2012.
THEY HAVE TO DEAL WITH IT.
IT IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
THE ELECTORATE IN 2401 AND
THAT IN 2016, IS
APPROXIMATELY 42 MILLION
PEOPLE.
OF THOSE 42 MILLION PEOPLE,
HALF OF THEM WILL BE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN, ASIAN, AND
LATINOS.
>> IN 20.16
>> SO THEY CAN WIN AN
ELECTION WHERE WHITES ARE
DISPROPORTIONATELY
REPRESENTED, OLDER VOTERS
ARE DISPROPORTIONATELY.
THEY CANNOT COMPETE
PRESIDENTIALLY AND I JUST
THINK THE PARTY IS, YOU KNOW,
RONALD REAGAN WON 45% OF THE
LATINO VOTE IN CALIFORNIA IN
1984.
REPUBLICANS HELD HALF THE
HOUSE SEATS IN CALIFORNIA.
TODAY AS A CONSEQUENCE OF
REPUBLICAN POLICY, BEGINNING
WITH PEOPLE, ALL ABOUT
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES, THE REPUBLICRATS
ARE NOT EVEN EXPECTIVE IN
CALIFORNIA.
AND THAT'S 55 VOTES OUT
OF-- ONE FIFTH OF WHAT UYO
NEED TO GET ELECTED
PRESIDENT.
AND THAT IS HAPPENING IN
COLORADO, IN FLORIDA, IN
VIRGINIA, IN NEVADA, ACROSS
THE COUNTRY.
I MEAN THIS IS A PARTY THAT
IS WRITING OFF THE WHITE
HOUSE.
>> Woodruff: CHANGE OF
SUBJECT, BENZODIAZEPINE ANG,
HIS LAST DAY AS CHAIRMAN OF
THE FEDERAL RESERVE.
WE HEARD PAUL SOLMAN TALK TO
ECONOMISTS ON BOTH SIDES OF
THE POLITICAL SPECTRUM.
HOW DO YOU SEE IT.
>> RIGHT NOW WE HAVE TO
THINK HE DID A FANTASTIC
JOB.
IT WAS GUTSY TO REALLY, NOT
ONLY UNIF YOU RECALL TOOLS
BUT UNIF YOU RECALL TOOLS HE
DIDN'T KNOW HE HAD.
>> I AGREE.
I MEAN WHEN EVERYBODY ELSE
WENT WEAK IN THE KNEES AND
WERE NAYSAYERS AND
EVERYTHING, PARTICULARLY
CONGRESS, REPUBLICANS, HE
REALLY STOOD UP.
I MEAN HE STOOD BETWEEN THIS
COUNTRY AND THE GULF, I MEAN,
DISASTER.
AND I THINK HE DE SERVES A
LOT OF CREDIT.
I REALLY DO.
>> YOU BOTH GIVE HIM AN A OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
>> IT IS ALL UNWOUND BUT
YEAH.
>> NOW THE FINAL AND MOST
IMPORTANT QUESTION, THE
SUPER BOWL.
I WANT A PREDICTION FROM
BOTH OF YOU AND WHAT ARE YOU
LOOKING FOR?
>> WELL, WHEN YOUR OWN TEAM
IS NOT IN THE SUPER BOWL YOU
HAVE TWO MORAL
OBLIGATIONSMENT YOU CAN
EITHER ROOT FOR THE TEAM
FROM THE MOST ECONOMICALLY
DISADVANTAGED CITY, THAT'S
RIGHT.
AND IN SEATTLE I THEY THEY
ARE ABOUT EVEN, O THEY ARE
POLITICALLY ECONOMICALLY
ADVANCED SO THERE IS A WASH
THERE.
SO TEN YOU GO ON THE MORAL
CALIBRE OF THE ROLE MODEL.
HERE SU HAVE PAYTON MANNING
WHO IS A VERY PERFECT
PRESENTATION.
FOR SATTELE RICHARD
SCHERRMAN THE DEFENSIVE
BACK.
A BIT OF A BRAFF DACHIO
MANNER YOU WOULD SAY, SO I
DO THINK YOU HAVE TO GO WITH
MAN ON THAT.
SO THAT IS MY MORAL
PREFERENCE.
MY GAME DECISION PREFERENCE
IS THAT SEATTLE WINS.
>> Woodruff: OH MY, ALL
RIGHT, MARK.
>> I HAVE TO SAY A WORD
ABOUT RICHARD SCHERRMAN WHO
CAME OUT OF COMPTON, A TOP
CITY, GANGS, TURNED DOWN A
SCHOLARSHIP TO GO TO
STANDFORD WHERE HE GRADUATED.
FINISHED SECOND IN HIS HIGH
SCHOOL CLASS BECAUSE --
>> HE SAYS BAD THINGS ABOUT
CRABTREE.
>> HE APOLOGIZED FOR THAT.
JUDY,-- FAIRS FOR GOOD
REASON, FAVORITES USUALLY
WIN, I LIKE UNDERDOGS, RAT
FOR THE PHILLIE TO WIN THE
KENTUCKY DERBY, I ROOT FOR
THE KID WITHOUT WENT TO LAW
SCHOOL NIGHTS AND WORKED
DAYS TO GET THE PROMOTION
AND IT'S ALWAYS THE C.E.O.s
NEPHEW THAT GETS THE
PROMOTION INSTEAD.
I AM ROOTING FOR RUSSELL
WILSON, ENVE THOUGH PEYTON
MANNING IS A TOTALLY
ADMIRABLE HUMAN BEING AN
GREAT CITIZEN, I AM ROOTING
FOR SEATTLE AND THEY WILL
WIN.
>> Woodruff: YOU REQUEST BET
WE WILL HOLD TO YOU ACCOUNT
ON THIS ONE.
DAVID, TWO ANSWERS.
>> ON THE GAME OUTCOME WE
AGREE.
>> OKAY.
HT ALL RIG.
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Wooduff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
A STATE DEPARTMENT REVIEW FOUND
THE LONG-DEBATED KEYSTONE
PIPELINE WOULD CAUSE NO SERIOUS
ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS.
A GLOBAL FINANCIAL MARKETS SELL-
OFF SENT WALL STREET SHARPLY
LOWER.
THE DOW INDUSTRIALS LOST NEARLY
150 POINTS.
AND THE SYRIAN PEACE TALKS
ENDED, WITH LITTLE PROGRESS TO
REPORT.
IT'S BEEN A YEAR OF BIG CHANGES
HERE AT THE NEWSHOUR, AND WE
AREN'T FINISHED YET.
COME VISIT US ONLINE TONIGHT
AND YOU'LL SEE A WHOLE NEW LOOK.
WE'VE COMPLETELY OVERHAULED OUR
WEBSITE, AND OUR NEW HOME ONLINE
IS DESIGNED TO LOOK GREAT ON ANY
DEVICE.
WHETHER YOU WANT TO WATCH
SHIELDS AND BROOKS ON YOUR
TABLET, WATCH OUR SHOW LIVE VIA
OUR VIDEO STREAM, OR CATCH UP ON
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND ON YOUR
ANDROID PHONE, WE'VE GOT YOU
COVERED.
YOU CAN FIND ALL OF OUR REPORTS,
NEATLY ARRANGED ON OUR RECENT
VIDEO ,
SCIENCE, HEALTH OR EDUCATION
COVERAGE, AND EVERYTHING ELSE WE
OFFER ONLINE, WITH NO
REGISTRATION, NO PAYWALL, AND NO
LIMITATIONS.
SO, ONLINE RIGHT NOW, MORE
ECONOMISTS WEIGH IN ON MAKING
SENSE WITH COMMENTARY ON
BERNANKE.
WE OFFER A LOOK AT THAILAND IN
THE EYE OF A POLITICAL STORM AS
IT NEARS AN ELECTION.
AND OUR STUDENT REPORTING LABS
INVESTIGATE THE IMPACT OF
CONCUSSIONS ON SCHOOL FOOTBALL.
YOU CAN SEE WE'RE EXCITED ABOUT
IT.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK" WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> AS THE PRESIDENT TAKES TO
THE STUMP AND REPUBLICANS GO
ON RETREAT, WE EXAMINE THE
STATE OF THE STATE OF THE
UNION.
THE RHETORIC, THE REALITY
AND THE REACTION, TONIGHT ON
WASHINGTON WEEK.
JUDY
>> Wooduff: TOMORROW'S EDITION
OF PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND REPORTS
ON A DARKER SIDE OF THE SUPER
BOWL.
THE SPIKE IN PROSTITUTION AND
SEX TRAFFICKING AROUND THE BIG
GAME.
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
ON MONDAY.
WITH A LOOK AT HOW ESTABLISHED
NAMES FROM TRADITIONAL NEWS
MEDIA ARE MOVING TO NEW ONLINE
NEWS OUTLETS.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, HAVE A NICE
WEEKEND THANK YOU AND GOODNIGHT.